Procedure
The Immigration Office developed an online platform for processing your application. Hence, you can now upload your documents to www.enterhungary.gov.hu. The platform will ask multiple questions, and we have assembled a guide for you to use! You will need to prepare the documents listed below for the online application. You should remember that you will be asked to go to the Immigration Office in person to get your biometric data taken. Your application will be deleted if you don’t attend the office within 15 days after the notification!
Currently, you can visit the Immigration Office without an appointment; their address is Szegedi út 35-37, Budapest, 1135. If you want to avoid waiting in line, you can book an appointment after registering at the website of the Immigration Office here. When you go, please bring your passport with you; otherwise, you will have to repeat the procedure. If you are confused about some of the requirements, please get in touch with us at imt.documents@bme.hu!

You need to prepare the following documents for the online application:

A good quality, passport-size photo,
Your Letter of Award as proof of your monthly stipend  (for fee-paying students: proof of payment of your tuition fees and proof of health insurance),
Proof of comprehensive health insurance:
Your TAJ card, even if it is due to expire soon,
If your TAJ card has expired, a copy of your Groupama contract.
As a final resort, you can upload your Letter of Award as proof of having access to healthcare,
Transcript of your academic records (pick it up in the ASC (formally CAO), or Neptun request E027),
A student status certificate,
BSc and MSc students can pick it up in the ASC (formally CAO) in building R or get it through an E027 Neptun request,
Ph.D. students should visit the Dean’s Office of their faculty, but you do not actually need to meet the Dean!
Scanned images of ALL pages in your passport (even the EMPTY ONES)
A filled-in “Notification of accommodation” form,
You can download it from here, fill it in and get it signed by your accommodator (dormitory or landlord).
Proof of your address:
If you live in a dorm: get a certificate from your dorm that they provide you with accommodation,
If you live in an apartment: your rental agreement.
If you are on an extension semester, you are not eligible for the scholarship and housing allowance. Therefore, proof of means of subsistence is required at the time of application. You can prove it by uploading one of the following documents:
New bank balance statement or
Parent’s financial support letter and parent’s bank balance statement.
If your residence permit expires, but a decision has not yet been made to grant the renewal, the immigration office may issue a certificate of temporary residence until the decision is made. (This certificate is not the same as a temporary residence permit!) This document entitles the holder exclusively to residence in the territory of Hungary, and not to exit or re-entry. The certificate ceases to be valid upon departure and must be handed in upon exit